---
title: Investigating Knowledge Tracing using Simulated Students 
layout: post
img: /images/bkt_streak_random.png
date: 2021-12-07
comments: false
---

Knowledge tracing algorithms are embedded in Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITS) 
to keep track of what students know and do not know, in order to better focus practice. 
Due to costly in-classroom experiments, we explore the idea of using machine learning
models that can simulate students' learning process. We conduct experiments using such 
agents generated by Apprentice Learner (AL) Architecture to investigate the online
use of different knowledge tracing models (Bayesian Knowledge Tracing and the
Streak model). We were able to successfully A/B test these different approaches
using simulated students. An analysis of our experimental results revealed an
error in the implementation of one of our knowledge tracing models that was not
identified in our previous work, suggesting AL agents provide a practical
means of evaluating knowledge tracing models prior to more costly classroom
deployments. Additionally, our analysis found that there is a positive
correlation between the model parameters achieved from human data and the
param- eters obtained from simulated learners. This finding suggests that it
might be possible to initialize the parameters for knowledge tracing models
using simulated data when no human student data is yet available.

### Relevant Publications

Zhang, Q., MacLellan C.J. (2021). Investigating Knowledge Tracing Models
using Simulated Students. _AAAI2021 Spring Symposium on Artificial
Intelligence for K-12 Education_. [<i class="far fa-file-pdf"></i>][zhang-aaai-2021]
[<i class="fab fa-youtube"></i>][zhang-aaai-2021-talk]

[zhang-aaai-2021-talk]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a5ssnJp_EYo&list=PLCs_ylKds0dNXo8kd8eHRDZK2KbCBcL27&index=13
[zhang-aaai-2021]: /files/Investigating-Knowledge-Tracing-Models-using-Simulated-Students.pdf
